package management is a method of installing and maintaining (which includes updating and probably removing as well) software on the system. In the early days of Linux, programs were only distributed as source code, along with the required man pages, the necessary configuration files, and more.

we will learn how to install, update, remove, find packages, manage packages and repositories on Linux systems using YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified) tool developed by RedHat. The example commands shown in this article are practically tested on our CentOS 6.3 server, you can use these material for study purpose, certifications or just to explore ways to install new packages and keep your system up-to-date. The basic requirement of this article is, you must have a basic understanding of commands and a working Linux operating system, where you can explore and practice all the commands listed below.
.

Linux Expert should knows, list of Command line Package Manager & Usage
1) YUM Command. ...
2) DNF (Fork of YUM) Command. ...
3) RPM Command. ...
4) ZYPPER Command. ...
5) APT-GET & APT-CACHE Command. ...
6) DPKG Command. ...
7) PACMAN Command. ...
8) APT Command.


What is YUM?
YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified) is an open source command-line as well as graphical based package management tool for RPM (RedHat Package Manager) based Linux systems. It allows users and system administrator to easily install, update, remove or search software packages on a systems. It was developed and released by Seth Vidal under GPL (General Public License) as an open source, means anyone can allowed to download and access the code to fix bugs and develop customized packages. YUM uses numerous third party repositories to install packages automatically by resolving their dependencies issues.

What is a package manager in Linux?
In simpler words, a package manager is a tool that allows users to install, remove, upgrade, configure and manage software packages on an operating system. The package manager can be a graphical application like a software center or a command line tool like apt-get or pacman.

You’ll often find me using the term ‘package’ in tutorials and articles on It’s FOSS. To understand package manager, you must understand what a package is


YUM Repositories are warehouses of Linux software (RPM package files). RPM package file is a Red Hat Package Manager file and enables quick and easy software installation on Red Hat/CentOS Linux. YUM Repositories hold a number of RPM package files and enable download and installation of new software on our VPS.

Some commends
YUM uses numerous third party repositories to install packages automatically by resolving their dependencies issues.
Install a Package with YUM. ...
Removing a Package with YUM. ...
Updating a Package using YUM. ...
List a Package using YUM. ...
Search for a Package using YUM. ...
Get Information of a Package using YUM.
