
Purpose of group and users on a Linux system 

In Linux, a group is a collection of users. The main purpose of the groups is to define a set of privileges like read, write, or execute permission for a given resource that can be shared among the users within the group. Users can be added to an existing group to utilize the privileges it grants.
Each group in a Linux system is uniquely identified by a group identification number or GID. All the information listing groups in a system are stored in /etc/group file. ... Every user has a primary user group and zero or more supplementary groups. On login, the group membership is set to the primary group of user.
In Linux, a group is a collection of users. The main purpose of the groups is to define a set of privileges like read, write, or execute permission for a given resource that can be shared among the users within the group. Users can be added to an existing group to utilize the privileges it grants

Users are accounts that can be used to login into a system. Each user is identified by a unique identification number or UID by the system. All the information of users in a system are stored in /etc/passwd file. The hashed passwords for users are stored in /etc/shadow file.
List All Linux Users with the getent Command
Username.
The encrypted password (represented by x, located in the /etc/shadow file)
User ID number (known as UID)
User group ID (known as GID)
User full name.
User home directory.
The login shell (by default set to bin/bash)

Managing cammands for groups and users 
adduser: add a user to the system.

userdel: delete a user account and related files.

addgroup: add a group to the system.

delgroup: remove a group from the system.

usermod: modify a user account.

chage: change user password expiry information.

sudo: run one or more commands as another user (typically with superuser permissions).

Relevant files: /etc/passwd (user information), /etc/shadow (encrypted passwords), /etc/group (group information) and /etc/sudoers (configuration for sudo).
